Multiple networks and templates.yaml (#761)
graphprotocol/docs: website/pages/en/deploying/multiple-networks.mdx

---
title: Deploying a Subgraph to Multiple Networks
---

> This page explains how to deploy a subgraph to multiple networks. To deploy a subgraph you need to first install the [Graph CLI](https://github.com/graphprotocol/graph-tooling/tree/main/packages/cli). If you have not created a subgraph already, see [creating a subgraph](/developing/creating-a-subgraph).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page explains how to deploy a subgraph to multiple networks. To deploy a subgraph you need to first install the [Graph CLI](https://github.com/graphprotocol/graph-tooling/tree/main/packages/cli). If you have not created a subgraph already, see [Creating a subgraph](/developing/creating-a-subgraph).
```

## Deploying the subgraph to multiple networks

In some cases, you will want to deploy the same subgraph to multiple networks without duplicating all of its code. The main challenge that comes with this is that the contract addresses on these networks are different.

> ### Using graph-cli

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using `graph-cli`
```
or
```suggestion
### Using the Graph CLI
```

Both `graph build` (since `v0.29.0`) and `graph deploy` (since `v0.32.0`) accept two new options:

```sh
Options:

      ...
      --network <name>          Network configuration to use from the networks config file
      --network-file <path>     Networks config file path (default: "./networks.json")
```

You can use the `--network` option to specify a network configuration from a `json` standard file (defaults to `networks.json`) to easily update your subgraph during development.

> **Note:** The `init` command will now auto-generate a `networks.json` based on the provided information. You will then be able to update existing or add additional networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: The `init` command will now auto-generate a `networks.json` based on the provided information. You will then be able to update existing or add additional networks.
```

If you don't have a `networks.json` file, you'll need to manually create one with the following structure:

```json
{
    "network1": { // the network name
        "dataSource1": { // the dataSource name
            "address": "0xabc...", // the contract address (optional)
            "startBlock": 123456 // the startBlock (optional)
        },
        "dataSource2": {
            "address": "0x123...",
            "startBlock": 123444
        }
    },
    "network2": {
        "dataSource1": {
            "address": "0x987...",
            "startBlock": 123
        },
        "dataSource2": {
            "address": "0xxyz..",
            "startBlock": 456
        }
    },
    ...
}
```

> **Note:** You don't have to specify any of the `templates` (if you have any) in the config file, only the `dataSources`. If there are any `templates` declared in the `subgraph.yaml` file, their network will be automatically updated to the one specified with the `--network` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: You don't have to specify any of the `templates` (if you have any) in the config file, only the `dataSources`. If there are any `templates` declared in the `subgraph.yaml` file, their network will be automatically updated to the one specified with the `--network` option.
```

Now, let's assume you want to be able to deploy your subgraph to the `mainnet` and `sepolia` networks, and this is your `subgraph.yaml`:

```yaml
# ...
dataSources:
  - kind: ethereum/contract
    name: Gravity
    network: mainnet
    source:
      address: '0x123...'
      abi: Gravity
    mapping:
      kind: ethereum/events
```

This is what your networks config file should look like:

```json
{
  "mainnet": {
    "Gravity": {
      "address": "0x123..."
    }
  },
  "sepolia": {
    "Gravity": {
      "address": "0xabc..."
    }
  }
}
```

Now we can run one of the following commands:

```sh
# Using default networks.json file
yarn build --network sepolia

# Using custom named file
yarn build --network sepolia --network-file path/to/config
```

The `build` command will update your `subgraph.yaml` with the `sepolia` configuration and then re-compile the subgraph. Your `subgraph.yaml` file now should look like this:

```yaml
# ...
dataSources:
  - kind: ethereum/contract
    name: Gravity
    network: sepolia
    source:
      address: '0xabc...'
      abi: Gravity
    mapping:
      kind: ethereum/events
```

Now you are ready to `yarn deploy`.

> **Note:** As mentioned earlier, since `graph-cli 0.32.0` you can directly run `yarn deploy` with the `--network` option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: As mentioned earlier, since `graph-cli 0.32.0` you can directly run `yarn deploy` with the `--network` option:
```

```sh
# Using default networks.json file
yarn deploy --network sepolia

# Using custom named file
yarn deploy --network sepolia --network-file path/to/config
```

### Using subgraph.yaml template

> One solution for older graph-cli versions that allows to parameterize aspects like contract addresses is to generate parts of it using a templating system like [Mustache](https://mustache.github.io/) or [Handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way to parameterize aspects like contract addresses using older `graph-cli` versions is to generate parts of it with a templating system like [Mustache](https://mustache.github.io/) or [Handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/).
```

```yaml
# ...
dataSources:
  - kind: ethereum/contract
    name: Gravity
    network: mainnet
    network: {{network}}
    source:
      address: '0x2E645469f354BB4F5c8a05B3b30A929361cf77eC'
      address: '{{address}}'
      abi: Gravity
    mapping:
      kind: ethereum/events
```

In order to generate a manifest to either network, you could add two additional commands to `package.json` along with a dependency on `mustache`:

```json
{
  ...
  "scripts": {
    ...
    "prepare:mainnet": "mustache config/mainnet.json subgraph.template.yaml > subgraph.yaml",
    "prepare:sepolia": "mustache config/sepolia.json subgraph.template.yaml > subgraph.yaml"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    ...
    "mustache": "^3.1.0"
  }
}
```

To deploy this subgraph for mainnet or Sepolia you would now simply run one of the two following commands:

```sh
# Mainnet:
yarn prepare:mainnet && yarn deploy

# Sepolia:
yarn prepare:sepolia && yarn deploy
```

A working example of this can be found [here](https://github.com/graphprotocol/example-subgraph/tree/371232cf68e6d814facf5e5413ad0fef65144759).

> **Note:** This approach can also be applied to more complex situations, where it is necessary to substitute more than contract addresses and network names or where generating mappings or ABIs from templates as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: This approach can also be applied to more complex situations, where it is necessary to substitute more than contract addresses and network names or when generating mappings or ABIs from templates as well.
```

## Checking subgraph health

If a subgraph syncs successfully, that is a good sign that it will continue to run well forever. However, new triggers on the network might cause your subgraph to hit an untested error condition or it may start to fall behind due to performance issues or issues with the node operators.

> Graph Node exposes a graphql endpoint which you can query to check the status of your subgraph. On a local node, it is available on port `8030/graphql` by default. The full schema for this endpoint can be found [here](https://github.com/graphprotocol/graph-node/blob/master/server/index-node/src/schema.graphql). Here is an example query that checks the status of the current version of a subgraph:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Graph Node exposes a GraphQL endpoint which you can query to check the status of your subgraph. On a local node, it is available on port `8030/graphql` by default. The full schema for this endpoint can be found [here](https://github.com/graphprotocol/graph-node/blob/master/server/index-node/src/schema.graphql). Here is an example query that checks the status of the current version of a subgraph:
```

> ```graphql

Reviewer 2: imo this just adds confusion for end users. This is a thing they can only really query on the local. On the network it isn't easy to access this data

Author: I was asked by the support team to include this material since it is helpful in certain cases. Thank you for flagging!
